# Rust Lindenmayer system Implementation Design Document Draft
## Introduction

### What are Lindenmayer System?
Lindenmayer system (L-Systems) is formal grammar to define the behavior of a system over time/iterations. Initially were created in 1968 by theoretical biologist and botanist Aristid Lindenmayer; with the purpose of modeling the growth of yeasts, fungus and bacteria. However, L-Systems are also used to model fractals and more commonly the plants.

L-Systems are defined in terms of three components.

 1. (V) - Alphabet 

The Alphabet is a set of elements that exist within the system. In which, the elements are either **Constants** or **Variables**. **Constants** have the property in which they don't change over iterations. **Variables** have the property of changing based on production rule between iterations.

 2. (ω) - Axiom

The Axiom is the initial state of the L-System.

 3. (P) - Production Rules

The Production rules define how variables change between iterations.

**Example**. [Algae](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/L-system#Example_1:_Algae)

**variables** : A B 

**constants** : N/A 

**axiom**  : A 

**rules**  : (A → AB), (B → A) 
```
0 : A
1 : AB
2 : ABA
3 : ABAAB
4 : ABAABABA
...
```

L-Systems can also implement other forms of grammar. The following are some of the other forms of grammar that will be discussed in this design document.

Stochastic Grammar
: A grammar model that introduces probability to production rules.

**Example**. [Stochastic Grammar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/L-system#Stochastic_grammars)

**variables** : 0
**constants** : 1 [ ]
**axiom**  : 0
**rules** :
0(0.5) → 1[0]0 

0(0.5) → 0

```
0 : 0
1 : 0 or 1[0]0
    ↑       ↑
    |       └― 50% chance for this to occur
    └― 50% chance for this to occur
```

Context Sensitive Grammar
: A grammar model that allows production rules to be active when the neighboring elements are arranged in a specific manner.

**Example**. Context Sensitive Grammar

**variables** : A
**constants** : B C D
**axiom**  : BACA
**rules** : B < A > C → D
```
0 : BACA
1 : BDCA
     ↑ ↑
     | └― A didn't change because there wasn't a C to its left
     └― The A changed because it fulfilled the context sensitive rule
```

Parametric Grammar
: A grammar model that links each element with a parameter list. Elements with a linked parameter list is called a module. 

**Example**. Parametric Grammar
```
0 : A(1,2)
```

[Read More](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/L-system#Types_of_L-systems)

### Problems With Other Libraries

L-Systems have been implemented numerous times - on numerous different languages. However, many of the common and popular L-System implementations have two flaws/optimizations due to the language constraints or the implementation.

1. Single-Threaded

A L-Systems can be defined in numerous ways - this means a system can have constant big O to a exponential big O.

Assuming, that an hypothetical L-System is defined in such a way that it process the worst case big O. This would result, in a system become excessively long to execute after the 6th iteration.

Since, most implementations are single threaded. This means the execution can be quite slow. However, since L-Systems is a parallel re-writing system - this means, rules can be applied on concurrently. This would mean theoretically a multi-threaded implementations would have performance benefit over single-threaded implementations.

Due to Rusts ownership rules and concurrency features - it is an ideal language for making a multi-thread L-System library.

2. Does Not Implement Other forms of Grammar

L-Systems can be implemented with numerous different types of grammar. However, a lot L-System libraries merely implement the bare minimum grammar for L-Systems. This could be due to a variety of reasons but not limited to - little gain for the added complexity and performance difficulties. Even though, the minimum is is enough for most common L-System applications - the use of grammars opens the door for more complex, comprehensive and flexible L-Systems.

## Requirements

In order for this library to be an improvement upon existing libraries. Three things must be implemented.

### Grammar

This library should implement L-Systems with all the grammars discussed so far.

 - Basic Grammar: A → B
 - Stochastic Grammar: A(P) -> B
 - Context Sensitive Grammar: B < A > C -> D
 - Parametric Grammar: A(x, y): x == 0 -> A(1, y + 1)

The addition of other grammars should be done in a such a way not to hinder the other requirements.

### Multi-threaded

This library should implemented with multi-threading in mind. Any multi-threaded solution should adhere to the following requirements:

 - Any multi-threaded solution should provide consistency over numerous iterations. If n L-System are ran m times from the axiom - then the n L-Systems should have the same state.
 - A multi-threaded solution should work for any of the listed grammars.
 - A multi-threaded solution should have a faster run time compared to single threaded implementations

### Exports

This library should created in such a way to maximize target platforms. This means not only should the library operate on applications made with rust - it should also provide the required dll to work on dot net, java and etc. This is by far the most important requirement of the three - as it is essential to provide the performance of rust based solution to other development applications.

<!---
## Implementation
### L-System
### Rule
### Stochastic Grammar
### Context Sensitive Grammar
### Parametric Grammar
--->
